# Medima_tools

Author: Karim Makki

This software provides a suite of algorithms for estimating brain feature maps: curvature (for implicit brain MRI manifolds), sulcal depth maps, cortical thickness.

Inputs are essentially nifti images for binary segmentations. The user can also estimate mean and Gaussian curvature for meshes generated by Freesurfer/DHCP structural pipeline (gifti files). However, in this case, the user should also pass the corresponding nifti file as additional input to establish correspondences between real_word coordinates and vertex coordinates expressed in the image coordinate system and to perform the necessary computations in a cartesian grid.
Required softwares are available ready to run for Linux (Ubuntu) - with Windows computers being supported with a Linux Virtual Machine.

This software is governed by the CeCILL-B license under French law and abiding by the rules of distribution of free software. You can use, modify and/ or redistribute the software under the terms of the CeCILL-B license as circulated by CEA, CNRS and INRIA at the following URL "http://www.cecill.info".

As a counterpart to the access to the source code and rights to copy, modify and redistribute granted by the license, users are provided only with a limited warranty and the software's author, the holder of the economic rights, and the successive licensors have only limited liability.

In this respect, the user's attention is drawn to the risks associated with loading, using, modifying and/or developing or reproducing the software by the user in light of its specific status of free software, that may mean that it is complicated to manipulate, and that also therefore means that it is reserved for developers and experienced professionals having in-depth computer knowledge. Users are therefore encouraged to load and test the software's suitability as regards their requirements in conditions enabling the security of their systems and/or data to be ensured and, more generally, to use and operate it in the same conditions as regards security. The fact that you are presently reading this means that you have had knowledge of the CeCILL-B license and that you accept its terms.

Requirements :


pip3 install visvis (visualization tools)

pip3 install Trimesh

pip3 install nibabel

pip3 install pyqt5==5.14.0

pip3 install rtree

pip3 install scikit-image

If you use the code for your research, please cite the paper: "Makki, K, Ben Salem, Douraied and Ben Amor, Boulbaba. "Towards the assessment of intrinsic geometry of implicit brain MRI manifolds." IEEE Access (2021)"
